# Youtube-trends-Analysis-project-
Youtube trends Analysis project - Using Pyspark and Jupyter (Spark)


How analysis of YouTube Videos benefit Business ?
  

Abstract—Structured Data and its analysis gave lot of insight to people till date but its era of Videos, Audios and other unstructured data. People of different countries and their habit, Interest is also hot topic among researchers in terms of behavioral learning. Differences in habit and interest of people give us insight about people of different countries, what they like and what they not? In this project I will try and analyze habit of people and their interest and find out how they can benefit. This study will do analysis of YouTube trending video and find out how habitual differences between people of different countries which in turn help organizations when to advertise and on which video. This study will be done with the help of technologies like Apache Spark, MapReduce, Bigdata, Pig, Hive.
Keywords—YouTube, PySpark, MapReduce, Pig, Hive, Jupyter, Hadoop, HDFS, Sqoop, MySql.

I.	INTRODUCTION 

Bigdata is spreading with huge amount of data gathering into big companies like Google, Facebook, yahoo, Twitter etc, these companies give API and other useful data scraping benefits to people to learn from the data available and enhance their business profit or save capital investment by saving limited resources. Bigdata gathering every minute with huge amount, more than 500 videos uploaded to YouTube every minute. If this data analysed will help organization to grow more but till now only 1% of total data gathered got analysed. Organizations which are more into analysis are growing with high speed.
This project report will discuss and analyse habit of people of different countries using YouTube trending videos and this analysis will help Business to select categories, time to advertise and save resources with less capital investment on advertisement. This study is the key to finding solution to organizations problem of investing in advertisement with no output. This study will try and give insight to organization to take informed decision with the help of behavioural analysis of people watching YouTube videos. The analysis will show how different country are different in terms of habits and interest, this study will show that there is limited relationship between likes and dislikes and also time spent by people in commenting on videos. This analysis is vast in terms of giving insight to common people and organization about trending video, which country like which category video and correlation if any. 
	Everybody today watches video on YouTube whether it’s for study or for Entertainment and most of people get annoyed by irrelevant ads come on YouTube videos and also advertiser not getting results out of advertisement on Videos. So, I am doing this project out of curiosity to find some pattern in the data of YouTube which will help Business organization not to opt for Advertisement when it is not giving output. Therefore, data gathered with different variable will help us to understand trends and give us insight using likes, dislikes, views and comments with analysis of category and time.
	As we all know organizations try to advertise only where they get maximum return out of advertisement. So that’s why all big organization try and analyse data using different technologies to take out maximum profit from the advertisements and also want to come to conclusion as soon as possible, for that organization use data analysis techniques like batch Processing and Data streaming. In this project will try also analysis difference between different technologies in term of give output on time.
	Methodologies:	
	This project is divided into total of five sections starting with related work already done on YouTube trends and its analysis and techniques used. Followed by Understanding and explaining Datasets used for the project and also comparison of technologies used like what statistical analysis performed on data. Evaluation of work done will be presented with explanation and visualization of results. Conclusion will discuss what achieve and what to be achieved in future. 
II.	RELATED WORK
A.	Hive, Pig, MapReduce.
Hadoop Distributed File System is capturing huge amount of information in the world with number of technologies coming into existence which are used to retrieve and analyse the information, some of famous technologies are MapReduce, Pig and Hive which are used to preform Map reduce, summarisation, Filtering job in Bigdata. Pig have environment for execution of task ,can handle complex data structures, use piglatin to program queries and is very efficient when comes to connecting things together another one is Hive SQL which is more like SQL query language uses similar commands as SQL for example create database, Load Database and select queries but since these languages found it easy to query and get results but when t comes to efficiency more and more platform coming to efficiently perform MapReduce Jobs like Apache Spark[1].MapReduce framework is also most widely used platform to perform YouTube Analysis which we are performing in this project analysis as shown in Figure-1 but the work done is only trying to give some facts like famous category and top videos etc. which are not so insightful when it comes to giving some insight to Organization in term of decision making. This project will try and analyse not only trends of USA but also other countries[2]
 
